What are some of the important post installation tasks in Windows 10.
Well you know how to get to the settings by now, don't you.
So one of many ways is to open the Start button and go to the gear icon.
It used to be many years ago that Windows was largely opened by default and it
was up to the user or administrator to increase the security.
Now we find that the trend has reversed and your security related
settings are going to be enabled by default in Windows 10,
which I think is a very good thing indeed.
Case in point, updates.
So from the Windows Settings home page,
let's come down to update and security and you can do a manual update check.
From here, you can view your history.
And then you have some ability to customize when updates are installed
and whether you get notified if a restart is necessary.
Understand that all of this stuff is provisional in a business
environment and you can centralize the policy and make it impossible
for your end users to change these settings.
Again, the consistency is important in most businesses.
Under Advanced options allows you to temporarily
pause updates for up to 35 days.
Check by default is give me updates for other
Microsoft products when I update Windows.
So in other words, if you have the Microsoft Office applications installed,
it's going to give you those.
If you have Skype installed, it's going to give you those, etc, etc.
Delivery Optimization.
This was a little controversial when it was first introduced in Windows 10.
In order to make your Windows updates go a lot faster,
you can actually do peer-to-peer downloading.
By default, if you turn it on, it goes to only your local network other PCs,
but you can even take advantage of the internet.
Now it isn't as scary as you think it is.
Look at it this way, you may have 200 MB of updates to download,
are you going to just grab all 200 MB from across the
internet or can you get it much faster with another
Microsoft user maybe in your neighborhood.
Of course,
it's all anonymous and all of the updates that you would
receive peer to peer from another computer,
the user doesn't have anything to do with it,
the files are all digitally signed.
In other words,
it's meant to make Windows update more friendly to
internet connections or network connections,
so that's delivery optimization under advanced options.
So you notice that update is largely ready to go.
From update and security, we have Windows Defender.
This is the Microsoft built-in anti-malware client.
Really important.
You can do a manual scan,
the Windows Defender Security Center is a newish tool that allows you to
customize the behavior of your various protections and you'll notice
that we've got virus and threat protection,
you can do a manual scan, adjust the scheduled scans.
Firewall is super important because the Windows firewall is going to
protect your machine against unsolicited inbound connections.
This is on and it should stay on.
If you have problems trying to work with a particular app,
notice that you can allow apps through the firewall by
creating what are called firewall exceptions.
This clicks out to the old classic Control Panel that should look familiar if
you've used Windows firewall in previous versions of Windows.
I think those are the major points.
You notice that I'm not necessarily going right to the fun
stuff like customizing your colors in desktop.
I showed you how to do that anyway.
Instead,
I'm most concerned that you know how to get to the security and update
related settings because more than anything else, I want to make sure that you're computing environment is as safe as it can be.